ProgressReport.md, before:

# Progress Report
The following research and keylogger was coded for educational purposes to educate myself on how viruses such as a keylogger works and how individuals can protect themselves from this specific kind of virus. No device other than my own was keylogged in the process of making this keylogger.

## Research on keyloggers 
The research I have done on keyloggers can be found by clicking on the following google doc or the 'A Guide on Keyloggers pdf' file:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HwkEQq-x4y6odpeKQf5xAsGwabp0Wj5iwh_NPK2L2ko/edit?usp=sharing

## Keylogger Details
The keylogger I have created is a software-based trojan in Python which functions by capturing the keystrokes of the user's computer every time the user types a key and dumping the keystrokes into a text file under the folder named 'Logs'. For this keylogger, I have decided that not all keystrokes will recorded since I am only concerned with getting text-based sensitive or personal information such as passwords, only alphanumeric and common keys, delete, space, enter, tabs and backspace are recorded. Furthermore, I've coded this keylogger to only log files when the user has visited a login/sign up website out of a select list of websites. This includes websites, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Commonwealthbank Australia, Westpac and Gmail.

Alongside with recording keystrokes, the approximate time the user started typing, the program the user is using, their public and private IP address has also been recorded. Every time the user presses enter, the log file will dump logged keystrokes into a new line to neatly separate bodies of text in the log file. The time user has done so has also been recorded to consistently check on the time, the user has been actively typing. Every time the user switches to opening a new program after typing, the keystrokes recorded are dumped into a new text file. Text files are randomly named seven digit numbers between 1000000 and 9999999 to make it more difficult to search by name by the user. When the user is inactive on the computer for 8 minutes, the log files are emailed to my personal keylogger gmail account. This is so the user is very unlikely to be active on their computer and would not realise the computer is lagging while the log files are being emailed. The files are then deleted from the infected computer. Similarly, a maximum of 3 screenshots as png files are taken every 10 seconds and are named in a similar method as log files.

To launch the keylogger automatically without having to run the Python script manually in the terminal, I've attached the path to the launch.vbs file as the target to my Google chrome shortcut. When the shortcut is executed, the launch.vbs will run the keylogger without opening the terminal so the keylogger can remain hidden. The launch.vbs also runs the launch.bat file which will open Google normally and run your pythonw keylogger. The keylogger is a .pyw file to prevent the console from popping up to display any output.

## Anti-virus details
The antivirus is coded in Python and is designed to scan all the .pyw files on the operating system. It gets all the file signatures of those files via a md5 hash which will be compared to a list of signatures (in this case one signature to remove my keylogger virus). If any of the signatures match, the file is identified as infected and gives the option for the user to delete all infected files or not. The user can quit the program by inputing 'quit' when the program asks to exit the program.

## Detecting and Deleting the keylogger
(Please refer to 'A Guide on Keyloggers.pdf' for more information on keyloggers in general)

The keylogger I have coded is hard to detect but not it is not impossible. One way to detect it is to use some sort of anti-virus, anti-keylogger or anti-malware software to scan and/or delete the keylogger from the operating system. Another way is to open up the computer's task manager and search if python is running as a process on the computer. If no other python script is known to be run on the computer, it is likely to be the keylogger. While on opening file explorer, keep the hidden files check on so any suspicious hidden files created by the keylogger can be viewed and detected. After 8 minutes of inactivity on your computer if the computer begins to lag, the computer is likely to be infected with the keylogger.

After detecting the keylogger file, the file is easy to delete by moving it into the recycle bin. Alternatively, the use of an anti-virus or anti-malware software can delete the program for you.  

## Progress log/diary
| Date | Description | Hours Taken |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| 27/02/2020 | Basic information on what keyloggers are, how to detect them, how keyloggers work was researched and how to protect one's self from keyloggers. I've learnt that keyloggers could also exist in the form of hardware rather than only software and that keyloggers can record keystroke sounds and identify what keys were clicked on. | 2 |
| 3/03/2020 | A basic keylogger which records keystrokes into a log file was made. I've discovered that making my file type to be .pyw can be used to make the keylogger less easily detected since the program will not automatically open a terminal when being executed. In addition, the method that I'm going to use such that the keylogger remains undetected is to create a log file under a randomised name, send the logfile via email when user switches applications, then delete the file. | 3 |
| 11/03/2020 | I added in the formatting for my log files and wrote up a function designed to write into the log file such that only letters, numbers, spaces, enters, backspaces and deletes are key-logged. I researched approaches on how keyloggers were made to gain a better understanding of keyloggers by various people.| 3 |
| 18/03/2020 | A mouse listener event was implemented to ensure when the user is close to the location of the log files that the keylogger will write up any other logged keys, email then delete the files so the user cannot find what was logged. While finishing up my email function, I realised the Google has a 'less secure app access' option which stops my keylogger and other less secure apps from emailing my gmail account. I plan to perhaps set up OAuth if I have time to meet Google's secure app requirements and prevent my gmail account from being hacked by other apps. Otherwise, for now, I need to turn that ON the access option to test my emailing function. | 4 |
| 27/03/2020 | More research into my write about keyloggers was done. I was reading and investigating into the history of keyloggers, more about their functionality and application of uses in society on a deeper level. | 4 |
| 29/03/2020 | I tried to allow the keylogger to email every 8 minutes of user inactivity and implemented the keylogger's screenshot feature. When testing my keylogger, I found out that my implementation when I click on a directory that was near the log files' location, an email of the log files was sent which caused my computer to temporarily freeze making the keylogger's existence quite obvious. To combat this, I remove the feature of emailing when the user opens a folder near the log files and turned all log files created into hidden files.  | 8 |
| 2/04/2020 | I finished my write up of my report on keyloggers writing up the final section about how to protect yourself from keyloggers and polishing up and adding more details in other sections. | 2 |
| 11/04/2020 | I started testing out my keylogger practically to see if it works effectively. I researched a bit on antiviruses and coded one up in python. | 6 |
| 12/04/2020 | I finished screen recording and narrating over my something awesome presentation video. | 6 |
| 13/04/2020 | I tried to find and fixing any new bugs in the keylogger. One bug I found was that the time recorded for each new line wasn't being recorded correctly which is now fixed. I added a guide on how to detect and delete my keylogger and finished editing my something awesome presentation video.  | 5 |

Commit message:

Reclarifying on progress report to maintain integrity

ProgressReport.md, after:

# Progress Report
The following research and keylogger was coded for educational purposes to educate myself on how viruses such as a keylogger works and how individuals can protect themselves from this specific kind of virus. No device other than my own was keylogged in the process of making this keylogger.

## Research on keyloggers 
The research I have done on keyloggers can be found by clicking on the following google doc or the 'A Guide on Keyloggers pdf' file:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HwkEQq-x4y6odpeKQf5xAsGwabp0Wj5iwh_NPK2L2ko/edit?usp=sharing

## Keylogger Details
The keylogger I have created is a software-based trojan in Python which functions by capturing the keystrokes of the user's computer every time the user types a key and dumping the keystrokes into a text file under the folder named 'Logs'. For this keylogger, I have decided that not all keystrokes will recorded since I am only concerned with getting text-based sensitive or personal information such as passwords, only alphanumeric and common keys, delete, space, enter, tabs and backspace are recorded. Furthermore, I've coded this keylogger to only log files when the user has visited a login/sign up website out of a select list of websites. This includes websites, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Commonwealthbank Australia and Westpac.

Alongside with recording keystrokes, the approximate time the user started typing, the program the user is using, their public and private IP address has also been recorded. Every time the user presses enter, the log file will dump logged keystrokes into a new line to neatly separate bodies of text in the log file. The time user has done so has also been recorded to consistently check on the time, the user has been actively typing. Every time the user switches to opening a new program after typing, the keystrokes recorded are dumped into a new text file. Text files are randomly named seven digit numbers between 1000000 and 9999999 to make it more difficult to search by name by the user. When the user is inactive on the computer for 8 minutes, the log files are emailed to my personal keylogger gmail account. This is so the user is very unlikely to be active on their computer and would not realise the computer is lagging while the log files are being emailed. The files are then deleted from the infected computer. Similarly, a maximum of 3 screenshots as png files are taken every 10 seconds and are named in a similar method as log files.

To launch the keylogger automatically without having to run the Python script manually in the terminal, I've attached the path to the launch.vbs file as the target to my Google chrome shortcut. When the shortcut is executed, the launch.vbs will run the keylogger without opening the terminal so the keylogger can remain hidden. The launch.vbs also runs the launch.bat file which will open Google normally and run your pythonw keylogger. The keylogger is a .pyw file to prevent the console from popping up to display any output.

## Anti-virus details
The antivirus is coded in Python and is designed to scan all the .pyw files on the operating system. It gets all the file signatures of those files via a md5 hash which will be compared to a list of signatures (in this case one signature to remove my keylogger virus). If any of the signatures match, the file is identified as infected and gives the option for the user to delete all infected files or not. The user can quit the program by inputing 'quit' when the program asks to exit the program.

## Detecting and Deleting the keylogger
(Please refer to 'A Guide on Keyloggers.pdf' for more information on keyloggers in general)

The keylogger I have coded is hard to detect but not it is not impossible. One way to detect it is to use some sort of anti-virus, anti-keylogger or anti-malware software to scan and/or delete the keylogger from the operating system. Another way is to open up the computer's task manager and search if python is running as a process on the computer. If no other python script is known to be run on the computer, it is likely to be the keylogger. While on opening file explorer, keep the hidden files check on so any suspicious hidden files created by the keylogger can be viewed and detected. After 8 minutes of inactivity on your computer if the computer begins to lag, the computer is likely to be infected with the keylogger.

After detecting the keylogger file, the file is easy to delete by moving it into the recycle bin. Alternatively, the use of an anti-virus or anti-malware software can delete the program for you.  

## Progress log/diary
| Date | Description | Hours Taken |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| 27/02/2020 | Basic information on what keyloggers are, how to detect them, how keyloggers work was researched and how to protect one's self from keyloggers. I've learnt that keyloggers could also exist in the form of hardware rather than only software and that keyloggers can record keystroke sounds and identify what keys were clicked on. | 2 |
| 3/03/2020 | A basic keylogger which records keystrokes into a log file was made. I've discovered that making my file type to be .pyw can be used to make the keylogger less easily detected since the program will not automatically open a terminal when being executed. In addition, the method that I'm going to use such that the keylogger remains undetected is to create a log file under a randomised name, send the logfile via email when user switches applications, then delete the file. | 3 |
| 11/03/2020 | I added in the formatting for my log files and wrote up a function designed to write into the log file such that only letters, numbers, spaces, enters, backspaces and deletes are key-logged. I researched approaches on how keyloggers were made to gain a better understanding of keyloggers by various people on my keylogger guide.| 3 |
| 18/03/2020 | A mouse listener event was implemented to ensure when the user is close to the location of the log files that the keylogger will write up any other logged keys, email then delete the files so the user cannot find what was logged. While finishing up my email function, I realised the Google has a 'less secure app access' option which stops my keylogger and other less secure apps from emailing my gmail account. I plan to perhaps set up OAuth if I have time to meet Google's secure app requirements and prevent my gmail account from being hacked by other apps. Otherwise, for now, I need to turn that ON the access option to test my emailing function. | 4 |
| 28/03/2020 | More research into my write about keyloggers was done. I was reading and investigating into the history of keyloggers, more about their functionality and application of uses in society on a deeper level. | 4 |
| 29/03/2020 | I tried to allow the keylogger to email every 8 minutes of user inactivity and implemented the keylogger's screenshot feature. When testing my keylogger, I found out that my implementation when I click on a directory that was near the log files' location, an email of the log files was sent which caused my computer to temporarily freeze making the keylogger's existence quite obvious. To combat this, I remove the feature of emailing when the user opens a folder near the log files and turned all log files created into hidden files.  | 8 |
| 8/04/2020 | I noticed that I missed a week of working on my something awesome so I plan on work on my something awesome project more than once this week. I generally finished my write up of my guide on keyloggers writing up the final section about how to protect yourself from keyloggers and polishing up and adding more details in other sections. | 2 |
| 11/04/2020 | I started testing out my keylogger practically to see if it works effectively. I researched a bit on antiviruses and coded one up in python. | 6 |
| 12/04/2020 | I finished screen recording and narrating over my something awesome presentation video. | 6 |
| 13/04/2020 | I tried to find and fixing any new bugs in the keylogger. One bug I found was that the time recorded for each new line wasn't being recorded correctly which is now fixed. I added a guide on how to detect and delete my keylogger and finished editing my something awesome presentation video.  | 5 |
